Her Life's Task and Mastery  Journey
 


INTRODUCTION


Florence Nightingale

The purpose of this paper is to explore the Life of a Legend -Florence Nightingale, the founder of nursing, a woman of affluence and influence. Nightingale came to prominence while serving as a manager and training of nurses during the Crimean War, in which she organized to care for wounded soldiers. The founder of modern nursing as she is known-Florence Nightingale is best remembered for her devoted services to others. She was born into William Edward Nightingale and Frances Nightingale on May 12, 1820. Florence was from a wealthy upper class, British family. Regardless of her affluent nature, she found her calling. According to mastery textbook, "In the process leading to this ultimate form of power, we can identify three distinctive phases or level." The first is the Apprenticeship; the second is the Creative-Active; the third, Mastery." Greene, 2012, pp. 3).  

Mastery

With this, we now have the understanding that "Mastery not only retains the spirit of the Original Mind, but they add to it their years of apprenticeship and an ability to focus deeply on problems or ideas. "This leads to high level of creativity."(Greene, 2012, pp. 176).  Therefore, this research paper will examine Florence's journey to mastery; it will be focusing on the relationship of The Creative Task, The Creative Strategies, The Creative Breakthrough, and the idea of Emotional Pitfall during her journey to mastery. 

John Coltrane

In this research paper, we will be examining John Coltrane also a legendary, comparing his journey to Mastery with Nightingale's journey. However, John became "The man who had spent ten long years absorbing the styles of all forms of music and jazz now had become the trendsetter for others. (Greene, 2012, pp. 208). John had over ten years of an intense apprenticeship, followed by ten years of perhaps the most fantastic explosion in modern music, up to his death.  Finally, This research paper will explore how both legend's journey to mastery correlated. 




BODY

Creative Task, Creative Strategies, Creative Breakthrough 

According to mastery textbook, "To awaken the Dimensional Mind and move through the creative process requires three essential steps: first, choosing the proper Creative Task, the kind of activity that will maximize our skills and knowledge; second, loosening and opening up the mind through certain Creative Strategies; and third, creating the optimal mental conditions for a Breakthrough or Insight". "Finally, throughout the process, we must also be aware of the Emotional Pitfalls -complacency, boredom, grandiosity, and the like -that continually threaten to derail or block our progress." "If we can move through the steps while avoiding these traps, we cannot fail to unleash powerful creative forces from within." (Greene, 2012, pp. 179). 

The Creative Task: Nightingale's journeyed by choosing the activity that maximized her skills; she was known as the Lady with the Lamp because Florence worked day and night, that she used a lamp for vision so to optimize her work. Florence established Nightingale training school at St. Thomas' Hospital to train nurses that will maximize the help to the soldiers wounded in the Crimean war; she got better herself training others. However, comparing other legends,  John was transfixed with Charlie Parker's performance with the saxophone, he was no near at the point of performing like him, John worked tirelessly practicing harder than anyone, took theory lessons, and maximized his knowledge; the book said, he was sweeping the listener away with his music with saxophone. This was an excellent accomplishment for John looking at how he journeyed to that point. Masters push harder with intensity as such. 

The Creative Strategies: Nightingale devised a strategy to loosen up her mind to avoid clinging on negatively from rejects by unleashing alternative ways of thinking - Creative Strategies. John also pushed harder, with intensity to achieve his goal, he avoided negativities, but only focused on learning the use of saxophone. They both did not allow their ego to get in the way; instead, they cultivated negative capability that granted opportunities and chance to unlock moves. By John's ability to take lessons to train himself, he was widening his opportunity to get better, 

The Creative Breakthrough: Florence got better with training he conducted plus her education. Florence was broadening her search for adequate sanitation in the hospitals with great serendipity.  "Patient safety and quality of care have come a long way since then." (Patricia, D. (2017). So there journey to master has some correlation. 
Nightingale's work became more demanding, and taking a toll on her; she never gave up. Florence did not give up on her original calling, but instead, she strengthened it by training.

 The Emotional Pitfalls: Nightingale fell sick with the Crimean fever, but it did not stop her emotionally from pursuing her purpose, it slowed her down, but she began her work in earnest. She resumed her campaign post recovery.  It means that Florence used her intellectual being; her way of thinking was different; she chooses an education in nursing over her duty to marry and raise a family. She involved her entire self; she did not take for granted anything learned or accomplished-complacency; she used her time well and adapted to new ideas -conservatism. She had tremendous energy, and she valued her work, was not blown from here to there -dependency;  great character, no egos displayed -grandiosity, she maintained peace and faith all through. Today, "Within the healthcare system, nurses remain strong advocates for their patients and family members; they remain at their bedside providing the care that is needed, and they remain ever vigilant, observing and documenting what they see, hear, and feel." (Zborowsky, T. (2014).

CONCLUSION

In conclusion, Florence's life tasks connected deep within her; she was creative by educating herself for the work -The Creative Task, she used strategies that loosened her mind from emotional or soul unbalances. Comparing Florence Nightingale with the other master -John Coltrane, she aligned with the processes and strategy a true master possesses. Nightingale used a Creative Breakthrough where she avoided tensions but continued to have great insight into her work; finally, a Crimean fever that placed her on a sick bed for months, which they thought that she would die from, but she recovered and continued her work -The Emotional Pitfall. She used strategies that will unlock any negativity or close emotional ups. "Florence laid the foundation for the current definition of nursing." (Stichler, J. F. (2007).  Florence herself she never ran out of energy because she chooses the right task for her, trained and was creative until her death on August 13, 1910. Florence was aged 90 years. Like  John, he took lessons to better himself, disregarded mal.talks about him, and was focused. In the end, Mastery by these two legends. 



Reference List

Hawks JH. Lessons From Florence Nightingale. Urologic Nursing. 2002;22(4):214. http://search.ebscohost.com.oclc.fullsail.edu:81/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a9h&AN=7175969&site=ehost-live. Accessed March 24, 2019.

Jaynelle Stichler. Leadership Roles for Nurses in Healthcare Design. Journal of Nursing Administration. 2007;37(12):527-530. doi:10.1097/01.NNA.0000302390.29485.7a.

ZBOROWSKY, T. The Legacy of Florence Nightingale’s Environmental Theory: Nursing Research Focusing on the Impact of Healthcare Environments. Health Environments Research & Design Journal (HERD) (Vendome Group LLC), [s.l.], v. 7, n. 4, p. 19–34, 2014. Disponível em: <http://search.ebscohost.com.oclc.fullsail.edu:81/login.aspx?

Greene, R. (2012). Mastery. Penguin Books.

Florence Nightingale, The Lady with the Lamp, Death At 90. The Huffington Post. November 28, 2015. Retrieved March 19, 2019.

Patricia, D. (2017). A Call at Nurses Week. Dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Nursing. Retrieved from HuffPost March 19, 2019.





















































































































